---
sidebar_position: 1
title: $ROCK
---

# $ROCK

**Solana CA:** 5VsPJ2EG7jjo3k2LPzQVriENKKQkNUTzujEzuaj4Aisf

zenBTC, Hush, and every future product built on zrChain share one thing: **$ROCK is the main value capture mechanism.** This is achieved via our Node Reward Pool architecture (detailed in the Staking $ROCK section).

$ROCK is the native token of zrChain, serving as gas, governance, and economic foundation. It exists natively on both Cosmos (ICS-20 implementation) and Solana (via zenTP native $ROCK bridge).

**$ROCK has a fixed supply of 1 billion tokens. With no inflation, ever.**

All rewards and incentives come from existing supply, including pre-allocated pools established at genesis. There is no mechanism to mint new tokens.

Unlike most tokens, **$ROCK had economic utility immediately at TGE.** All fees across the Zenrock ecosystem are paid in $ROCK (though often abstracted from the user). **Every revenue line generated by Zenrock Labs, onchain and offchain, as well as all onchain revenue from all other builders flows through the token.**

**This creates a direct, protocol-driven bid on $ROCK.** As fees increase, protocol-driven demand for the token increases. Those tokens are then distributed across the ecosystem according to Zenrock's tokenomic architecture (detailed in the Tokenomic Design section) and critically, are returned to the circulating market slowly over time due to the design of the Node Reward Pool.

As Zenrock Labs and others ship more products and more builders deploy on zrChain, protocol revenue grows. **More products, more fees, more protocol-driven demand for $ROCK.**
